# Notes-6

## References
- Refer time package on pkg.go.dev

## Building in windows, linux and mac
 - Go gives you to build exe files for making executable applications
 - Refer the GOOS command from <go env> command
 - It doesn't matter which you OS you are working on, you can creating an exe file for windows while working on iOS. Otherway around is also possible
 - Command: go build - for own OS system
 - Command: GOOS = "osname" go build for that particular OS. Windows - "windows", iOS = "darwin", Linux - "linux"

 ### Command Prompt
 - This is the syntax in the command prompt.
 - set GOOS=windows
 - go build

 It is a two step process.

 ## Memory Management in Golang
 - It is done automatically managed by Golang

 ### Two methods
 1. new()
 - Allocate memory but NO initialization happens
 - You will get a memory address
 - Zeroed Address - Can't put any data initially

 2. make()
 - Allocate memory and initialization happens
 - You will get a memory address
 - Non-zeroed storage - Can put data initially

### Garbage Collection - Refer pkg.go.dev/runtime
- GC happens automatically for the most part
- Anything OUT OF SCOPE or NIL is eligible
- Documentation Quote: "The GOGC variable sets the initial garbage collection target percentage. A collection is triggered when the ratio of freshly allocated data to live data remaining after the previous collection reaches this percentage. The default is GOGC=100. Setting GOGC=off disables the garbage collector entirely. runtime/debug.SetGCPercent allows changing this percentage at run time."
