# Notes-1

## Initialization
- Type 'go mod init "..."' into the integrated terminal.
- You usually type "github/username/packagename" in the '...' section.
- We are going with simply 'hello' which is the package name this time around.

## Creating a function
- main() is a reserve keyword.
- Go is a case sensitive language.
- Println is for printing.
- Methods from packages like 'fmt' have names starting with a capital letter like 'fmt.Println'.
- The code automatically imports the 'fmt' package for me after saving even though I didn't do it. 
- Go cleans the packages that we need or we don't need on the Go. 

## Running
- Type 'go run -filename.go-' to run the file.

## Help
- 'go help <command>' brings information regarding what you need.

## GoPath
- gopath environmental variable - you can know where go is installed 
- It is highly case sensitive
- Command - 'go env GOPATH'

## Lexer
- The function of the lexer is to check the grammatical rules of the language. It is responsible for the insertion of semicolons as the appropriate place. 

## Types
- Case insensitive; almost.
- For example, in 'fmt.Println', the reason P is capital, it is for the indication that where-ever this module was written, this println function was exported publically.
- Variable type should be known in advance.
- Everything is a type.

- Examples:
- String
- Bool 
- Integer - uint8, uint64, int8, int64, uintptr
- Floating - float32, float64
- Complex - These are basically complex numbers. 

- Advanced Types: Arrays, Slices, Maps, Structs, Pointers
- Other types: Function are internally treated as types as well. Channel, Mutex, etc. 
